
.. _introduction:

************
Introduction
************

This reference manual describes the Python programming language.


.. _implementations:

Alternate Implementations
=========================

Known implementations include:

CPython
   This is the original and most-maintained implementation of Python, written in C.

Jython
   Python implemented in Java.
   More information can be found at `the Jython website <https://www.jython.org/>`_.

Python for .NET
   This implementation actually uses the CPython implementation, but is a managed
   .NET application and makes .NET libraries available. For more information, see the `Python for .NET home page
   <https://pythonnet.github.io/>`_.

IronPython
   An alternate Python for .NET. For
   more information, see `the IronPython website <https://ironpython.net/>`_.

PyPy
   An implementation of Python written completely in Python. Additional information is
   available on `the PyPy project's home page <https://www.pypy.org/>`_.



.. _notation:

Notation
========

.. index:: BNF, grammar, syntax, notation

The descriptions of lexical analysis and syntax use a modified
`Backus–Naur form (BNF) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backus%E2%80%93Naur_form>`_ grammar
notation.  This uses the following style of definition:

.. productionlist:: notation
   name: `lc_letter` (`lc_letter` | "_")*
   lc_letter: "a"..."z"

The first line says that a ``name`` is an ``lc_letter`` followed by a sequence
of zero or more ``lc_letter``\ s and underscores.  An ``lc_letter`` in turn is
any of the single characters ``'a'`` through ``'z'``.  (This rule is actually
adhered to for the names defined in lexical and grammar rules in this document.)

Each rule begins with a name (which is the name defined by the rule) and
``::=``.  A vertical bar (``|``) is used to separate alternatives; it is the
least binding operator in this notation.  A star (``*``) means zero or more
repetitions of the preceding item; likewise, a plus (``+``) means one or more
repetitions, and a phrase enclosed in square brackets (``[ ]``) means zero or
one occurrences (in other words, the enclosed phrase is optional).  The ``*``
and ``+`` operators bind as tightly as possible; parentheses are used for
grouping.  Literal strings are enclosed in quotes.  White space is only
meaningful to separate tokens. Rules are normally contained on a single line;
rules with many alternatives may be formatted alternatively with each line after
the first beginning with a vertical bar.

.. index:: lexical definitions, ASCII

In lexical definitions (as the example above), two more conventions are used:
Two literal characters separated by three dots mean a choice of any single
character in the given (inclusive) range of ASCII characters.  A phrase between
angular brackets (``<...>``) gives an informal description of the symbol
defined; e.g., this could be used to describe the notion of 'control character'
if needed.

Even though the notation used is almost the same, there is a big difference
between the meaning of lexical and syntactic definitions: a lexical definition
operates on the individual characters of the input source, while a syntax
definition operates on the stream of tokens generated by the lexical analysis.
All uses of BNF in the next chapter ("Lexical Analysis") are lexical
definitions; uses in subsequent chapters are syntactic definitions.

